# Knowledge Article: Experience and Agile Handoffs
Setting up a Node app is often the first real step a student takes into becomming a full-stack developer. In this article I describe my experience building my first Node app along and the problems I encountered, including why Agile handoffs are important in full-stack development.
### My Personal Experience
When it comes to building any Node application, the first step is to install and configure node on your repository. This is as easy as copy-pasting a few commands from online into your terminal. I already had some code I was going to reuse from another project, so I ran the command `npm run start`, which in previous experience immediately ran the program. However, I encountered an error. Node was telling me that "start" was undefined and it did not find it in any of the node packages. I didn't work on fixing the issue immediately because I was hungry and the cafeteria I went to school at was about to close, so being the organized college student I was (and am) I left a comment in the code to <mark>handoff my work to a future, satiated me</mark>. After my meal, I quickly returned to work and fixed the issue, a missing alias in a node package.

### Agile Handoffs
What exactly is a handoff in Agile? Why should I care about Agile handoffs? These are questions you might have if you are just getting into full-stack development. According to this article, [Why Handoffs Are Killing your Agility](https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/why-handoffs-are-killing-your-agility#:~:text=May%2019%2C%202025,over%20the%20fence%20to%20developers.) by Martin Henshelwood, handoffs are "when one team or individual completes a task and passes it to another team for further work." In the development world, handoffs are used when a piece of an application makes it through a stage of the development life cycle. In my situation, I developed the code, handed it off to the testing team (me), and then to the maintenance team (myself), before commiting it to my repository. You might wonder, "If I'm not working on a team, should I still make handoffs to myself?" The answer is yes. Making self-handoffs are just as important as making handoffs to a team. We know that individuals who set goals, such as to-do lists, make significant improvements in productivity, according to [Andre Meyer](https://andre-meyer.ch/DATA/Pubs/2019_PhD_Thesis_AndreMeyer.pdf). In this study, developers were observed writing a list of goals they expected to accomplish the following day. This study refered to this practice as "journaling", and the concept of self-handoffs is exactly that. Writing down our context and goals for the next time we come back to that code is going to improve our understanding of where we left off and where we need to be. Sometimes you aren't trying to figure out what next to build in your code, you are figuring out how to fix it. According to this [blog on code comments](https://blog.submain.com/4-reasons-need-code-comments/), pseudocoding your intentions will draw your attention away from the syntax and more on the problem. Lots of developers immediately jump to the conclusion that their code isn't working likely to a syntax error, regardless of the error code produced. (We see this mentioned in [Andre Meyer's](https://andre-meyer.ch/DATA/Pubs/2019_PhD_Thesis_AndreMeyer.pdf) reasearch article also). As developers we also occasionally forget why we wrote something. Documenting your reasons for creating a method or class, can help you rediscover context to your project.

### Summary
In summary, it can be concluded that writing yourself notes and comments about what to work on next is a beneficial habit and practice in developing an application. Self-handoffs are proven to be an important tool that developers have at their disposal and is vital to providing context to the coding environment. Handoffs are responsible for many work related benefits and cognitive functions like:
* Productivity
* Coginitive load
* Problem-solving
* Understanding


<!-- Find one more article -->